Ambulant Player README
======================

This directory contains version 1.9 of the Ambulant Player,
a playback engine for SMIL documents. This release supports SMIL 2.1 and some
bits and pieces of SMIL 3.0WD. It is not intended for general distribution
yet, and requires a bit of work to get it to do interesting things.

On Mac and Windows, SMIL State is supported, but only with Python as the
state language, not with XPath yet. Also, <send> is not implemented yet.

On the Mac, there is preliminary support for SMILText. Scrolling/marquee/crawling
are only partially implemented.

To use the new features you must do the following things:
1. Install Python 2.5 from www.python.org. You must use the standard distribution
   for Mac or Windows.
2. Install Ambulant Player.
3. Open Ambulant Player, go to the Preferences and make the following two
   settings (which may not be enabled by default):
   - set "validate documents" to "never"
   - set "Enable plugin support" to "on".

There are two minimal test documents in the DemoPresentation folder (on Windows
this'll be somewhere in c:\Program Files\AmbulantPlayer-1.9-S3WD1)
- NYC-SmilText.smil is the NYC demo document but using smiltext, with some
  funny timings, fonts, etc.
- NYC-StateTest.smil is the NYC demo with one addition: if you "stop" and then
  "play" again the document will restart not at the beginning but where you left
  off. It will first show a 2-second slide telling you where it will start.
  
If these documents fail to work as expected: please let us know. The output of
the logger window is interesting: it may show why things failed to work.

The rest of this file is the "normal" readme, and probably not 100% correct.
------------------------------

The Ambulant homepage at <http://www.ambulantplayer.org> has more information.

Ambulant consists of a core library implementing the engine,
a number of GUI-toolkit specific libraries implementing renderers,
a number of player applications. The core library is also available
for embedding into C++ or Python programs.

Ambulant is distributed as either a source distribution or a
binary installer for a specific platform. This README file
is common to all distributions, see the INSTALL file for instructions on
building from source. The NEWS file has information on what is new
in this release.

Ambulant is Open Source: the license is LGPL. See the file
COPYING for details.

Feedback
--------

Please let us know about any problem you encounter: first check the FAQ
on the Ambulant homepage. Of course, there is a good chance we are not 
aware of your problem at this stage. In that case, either send email to:
<Ambulant-feedback@ambulantplayer.org> or fill out a bug report at the
sourceforge bug repository, via <http://sourceforge.net/projects/ambulant>.

See www.ambulantplayer.org for other community resources: mailing lists,
demo document repositories, etc. We expect to do bugfix releases fairly
regularly, join the (low-volume) announcements mailing list to be kept
up-to-date.

We are also specifically interested in cooperation: see the website if
you are interested in helping to make Ambulant a better product, or
combining it with your own work, porting to new platforms, etc.

Supported platforms
-------------------

Currently we have support for:
- Windows
- MacOSX
- Linux
- Nokia 770/800

The specific platforms that have been used for testing are:
- Windows: Windows 2000, Windows XP and Windows Vista on fairly recent Intel hardware
- MacOSX: 10.4. 10.2 or earlier will not work.
- Linux: Fedora Core on fairly recent Intel hardware
- Nokia 770/800: 2006/2007 edition OS

Windows CE support is broken for this release, we will try to revive it
soon. If you feel you could help with this please drop us a line.

Linux for handhelds (Zaurus, Sharp SL-5600 PDA) is no longer supported,
mainly due to staffing constraints. If you are interested in helping out 
to support this platform please contact us.

Supported media types
---------------------

- Text is supported on all platforms.
- Images in PNG, JPEG and GIF formats are supported on all
  platforms. Other formats are supported on some platforms.
- Audio:
  - Windows supports audio through DirectX, so all DirectX-compatible
    formats are supported. Installing DirectX plugins for new audio codecs
    will work.
  - Windows CE and Nokia 770 support only MP3, and cannot mix multiple audio
    streams in this release.
  - MacOSX and Linux support audio through FFMPEG and SDL,
    giving support for MP3 and many other formats, but not
    all codecs may be supported on WMA or QuickTime files.
- Video:
  - Windows supports video through DirectX.
  - Windows CE does not support video in this release.
  - Nokia 770 video support is preliminary and possibly buggy.
  - MacOSX supports video through QuickTime or FFMPEG.
  - Linux supports video through FFMPEG. The number of codecs is limited.

Networking support
------------------

This release has support for networked presentations. Streaming 
media items can be retrieved via HTTP on most platforms,
static media items and the SMIL file itself can be retrieved via HTTP.
RTSP support is available on Linux and MacOSX, but it has not been tested
very thoroughly, feedback is requested.
RTSP is not supported natively on Windows, but installing a DirectX
RTSP plugin should work.

SMIL 2.1 support
----------------

This release includes full support for SMIL 2.1.
All new 2.1 features are implemented on all platforms, with two exceptions:
- backgroundRepeat is not implemented in the Windows CE player
- soundAlign is not implemented in the Windows CE player

The Ambulant homepage, <http://www.ambulantplayer.org>, has more
information on SMIL 2.1, test documents, etc.

SMIL 2.0 support
----------------

This release supports full SMIL 2.0, with the following broad
exceptions:
- tag names must match media type, and no support for mimetypes.
- No %-escapes in URLs, and limited support for data: URLs.
- accessKey is not implemented.

As SMIL 2.0 is a big language there are undoubtedly areas where
we have overseen something. Please let us know if you encounter
problems.

User interface
--------------

The user interface is getting better, but still a bit clunky on some
platforms. There is a logging window in which the player will print
error messages and such, and a preferences/settings dialog that allows
you to select which parser to use (the validating Xerces parser or the
fast expat parser), which level of logging output you want, etc.

Documentation
-------------

Minimal user documentation is available through the Help menu (on
Mac/Linux/Windows, not on WinCE) or in the unix manpage.

Documentation of the overall design and the class relationships can be
found in: Documentation/Design in a source distribution. Detailed
interface documentation of the classes is in Documentation/API (in a
source distribution).

Examples
--------

Two example SMIL 2.0 documents are included, more are available
at <http://www.ambulantplayer.org>. In the binary distributions,
examples are placed in the toplevel distribution directory; in
source distributions, they are in the Extras directory.

The Welcome document is played automatically the very first time you
start the Ambulant Player. If you want to see it again you can play
it via the Help menu.

The DemoPresentation document is a slightly more elaborate example with
some variations to show off various features of SMIL, a readme
file is included.

Extending and embedding
-----------------------

Ambulant can be extended with plugins written in either C++ or Python,
and it can also be embedded in your own C++ or Python program. The API
documentation mentioned above is valid for both languages.

C++ programmers should look at src/plugins/rot13plugin.cpp for an
example plugin and at the various src/player_* directories for examples
of embedding.

Python programmers should look at src/pyambulant/player_pyqt for an
embedding example.

Known problems
--------------

A current list of known problems can be found in the ambulant
sourceforge bug database, accessible via <http://www.ambulantplayer.org>.

